Step 1
origami rose paper fold step 1
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 1
Start with the white side of the paper facing up. Fold the paper in half vertically and horizontally, then unfold.

Step 2
origami rose paper fold step 2
origami rose paper fold step 2
Fold each corner inward to meet at the center point.

Step 3
origami rose paper fold step 3
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 3
Fold each corner inward to the center again.

Step 4
origami rose paper fold step 4
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 4
Fold each corner inward to the center one last time.

Step 5
origami rose paper fold step 5
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 5
Fold the top layer of each flap outward along the dotted lines to form the first row of rose petals.

Step 6
origami rose paper fold step 6
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 6
To make the second layer of petals, fold each square flap in half, bringing the inner corners from the center to meet the first layer of petals.

Step 7
origami rose paper fold step 7
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 7
Repeat the same folds with the third layer of rose petals.

Step 8
origami rose paper fold step 8
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 8
Mountain fold the four outer corners toward the back of the model.

Step 9
origami rose paper fold step 9
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 9
Gently curl all the rose petals downward to give them a more natural shape

🌹 Folding tip: Use your fingertips or nails to curl the petals, or try a tool like a screwdriver or a thin pen for smoother curves. Use cylindrical tools of different diameters to match the petal size. Start curling from the center and work your way to the edges for the best effect!

The Completed Origami Rose! 🌹
origami rose paper fold completed 
Traditional Fractal Rose Diagram Step 10
For this tutorial, I used paper with a white side because it’s easier to follow. But you can use double-sided paper with the same color on both sides for a better result. One side can also be yellowish to mimic the pistils in the central area.

You can play around with different paper textures to get a velvety feel similar to that of a rose.

Experiment with different paper sizes and repeat steps 3 and 4 more times. The larger your paper, the more petals your final model will have.

I hope you had a great time following this origami rose tutorial. We’d love to see your beautiful origami creations, so don’t hesitate to share them with us in the comments section!