Step 1
origami sitting crane paper fold step 1
origami sitting crane diagram step 1
Start with the white side of the paper facing up. Fold the paper in half vertically, then unfold.

Step 2
origami sitting crane paper fold step 2
origami sitting crane diagram step 2
Fold and unfold the paper in half horizontally. Then, turn the paper over.

Step 3
origami sitting crane paper fold step 3
origami sitting crane diagram step 3
Fold and unfold along the diagonals.

Step 4
origami sitting crane paper fold step 4
origami sitting crane diagram step 4
Rotate 45° clockwise, then turn the paper over.

Step 5
origami sitting crane paper fold step 5
origami sitting crane diagram step 5
Collapse along the existing creases to form a Square Base.

Step 6
origami sitting crane paper fold step 6
origami sitting crane diagram step 6
Fold and unfold the bottom left and right edges to the centerline. Next, fold the top corner down, using the creases you just made as guides, and unfold again.

Step 7

origami sitting crane diagram step 7
origami sitting crane diagram step 7-1
Lift the bottom corner of the top flap and fold it upward along the creases from Step 6 to form a Petal Fold.

Step 8
origami sitting crane paper fold step 8
origami sitting crane diagram step 8
Turn the model over and repeat Steps 6 to 7.

Step 9

origami sitting crane diagram step 9
Fold the top right flap over to the left. Then, repeat the same fold on the other side.

Step 10

origami sitting crane diagram step 10
Fold the top flap upwards. Then, repeat on the other side.

Step 11
origami sitting crane paper fold step 11
origami sitting crane diagram step 11
Fold the top flap’s left edge down to meet the bottom edge.

Step 12
origami sitting crane paper fold step 12
origami sitting crane diagram step 12
Fold the top flap’s bottom edge to the triangle’s left edge.

Step 13
origami sitting crane paper fold step 13
origami sitting crane diagram step 13
Fold the flap you just made in half by bringing its top edge to meet the bottom edge.

Step 14
origami sitting crane paper fold step 14
origami sitting crane diagram step 14
Unfold the entire wing flap downward.

Step 15
origami sitting crane paper fold step 15
origami sitting crane diagram step 15
Fold up along the back edge.

Step 16
origami sitting crane paper fold step 16
origami sitting crane diagram step 16
Fold the wing flap back up.

Step 17
origami sitting crane paper fold step 17
origami sitting crane diagram step 17
Fold the wing flap in half so its top edge meets the bottom edge.

Step 18

origami sitting crane diagram step 18
Repeat Steps 11 to 17 on the other side.

Step 19

origami sitting crane diagram step 19
Mountain fold the top left flap in half. Then, repeat on the other side.

Step 20

origami sitting crane diagram step 20
Make an inside reverse fold on the top left corner, folding it downward to form the head.

Step 21

origami sitting crane diagram step 21
Gently pull out the pleated wings to give them shape, then pull the tail back slightly to finish the posture.

The Completed Origami Sitting Crane
origami sitting crane paper fold completed
origami sitting crane diagram step 22
Well done on folding your very own Orihazuru, the traditional sitting crane.

The fan-like wings will give your crane an elegant touch, particularly if you choose patterned Chiyogami.

Thanks for folding along, and don’t forget to share your creation with us. We can’t wait to see your beautiful models!